[docs] [essentials] - Partitions (#16511)
dagster-io/dagster: docs/content/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitioned-op-jobs.mdx

---
title: Partitioned op jobs | Dagster
description: Partitioned op jobs enable launching backfills, where each partition processes a subset of data.
---

# Partitioned op jobs

<Note>

>   This page is specific to <strong>op jobs</strong>. Looking for

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This page is specific to <strong>ops</strong>. Looking for
```

following along my suggestion about the "Partitioning ops" title, we could drop "jobs" here.

  Software-defined Assets? Refer to the{" "}
  <a href="/concepts/partitions-schedules-sensors/partitioned-assets">
    Partitioned assets and jobs
  </a>{" "}
  documentation.
</Note>

When defining a job that uses [ops](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops), you can partition it by supplying <PyObject object="PartitionedConfig" /> object as its config.

In this guide, we'll demonstrate how you can use partitions with ops and [jobs](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs).

---

## Prerequisites

Before continuing, you should be familiar with:

- [Ops](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/ops)
- [Jobs](/concepts/ops-jobs-graphs/jobs)

> - [Config](/concepts/configuration/config-schema)

Reviewer: should this be called "Run Configuration"?
